fix: [CDS-76667]:Add in FAQs that GitEx is supported for services, environment and infrastructure definitions (#4752)
harness/developer-hub: docs/platform/git-experience/manage-services-using-git-experience.md

---
title: Manage services using Git Experience 
description: Git Experience allows you to manage and store your services in Git
sidebar_position: 11
---
:::note
Currently, Git Experience support for services is behind the feature flag `CDS_SERVICE_GITX`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.
:::

Harness lets you create a service in the following ways:

* Create an inline service and save its configuration in Harness.
* Create a remote service and save its configuration in Git.

The topic explains how you can store your services in Git.

## Before you begin

* Make sure you have a Git repo with at least one branch.​
* Make sure you have a [Harness Git connector](/docs/platform/connectors/code-repositories/connect-to-code-repo) with a Personal Access Token (PAT) for your Git account.​

## Create a remote service

You can create a service from your account, organization, or project. This topic explains the steps to create a service from the project scope.

To create a remote service, do the following:

> 1. In your Harness Account, go to your project.
> 2. To create a service from outside of a pipeline, under **Project Settings**, select **Services**. To learn more about creating services, go to [Create Services](docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/services/create-services.md).
> 3. Select **+ New Service**. The **Add Service** settings appear.
>     ![](./static/Gitex_service.png) 
> 4. In **Name**, enter a name for the service.
> 5. Select **Remote**.
> 6. In **Git Connector**, select or create a Git connector to the repo for your project.​ For steps, go to [Code Repo Connectors](/docs/category/code-repo-connectors).
> 7. In **Repository**, select your repository. If your repository isn't listed, enter its name. Create the repository in Git before entering it in **Select Repository**. Harness does not create the repository for you.
> 8. In **Git Branch**, select your branch. If your branch isn't listed, enter its name. Create the branch in your repository before entering it in **Git Branch**. Harness does not create the branch for you.
> 9. Select the branch where you want to save your Service. You generally want to save it to the default branch on the first save. You can then create different branches in the Harness repo if you want to create different versions of your service.
>     ![](./static/branch_switching.png)
> 10. Harness Git Experience auto-populates the **YAML Path**. You can change this path and the file name.
> 11. Select **Save**.
>     ![](./static/save_service_config.png) 
> 12. Click on the YAML path provided (the one highlighted under the rectangular box), it will take you GitHub file where the service is stored.
>     ![](./static/service_remote_git.png) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your Harness account, go to a project.
2. In **Project Settings**, select **Services**. To learn more about creating services, go to [Create Services](docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/services/create-services.md).
3. Select **New Service**. The **Add Service** settings appear.
    
    ![](./static/Gitex_service.png) 
4. In **Name**, enter a name for the service.
5. In **How do you want to set up your service**, select **Remote**.
6. In **Git Connector**, select or create a Harness Git connector to the repo where you will store the service.​ For more information, go to [Code Repo Connectors](/docs/category/code-repo-connectors).
7. In **Repository**, select a repository. If your repository isn't listed, enter its name. Create the repository in Git before entering it in **Select Repository**. Harness does not create the repository for you.
8. In **Git Branch**, select a branch. If your branch isn't listed, enter its name. Create the branch in your repository before entering it in **Git Branch**. Harness does not create the branch for you. Save the service to the default branch on the first save. You can then create different branches in the Harness repo if you want to create different versions of your service.
    
    ![](./static/branch_switching.png)
    
    Harness Git Experience auto-populates the **YAML Path**. You can change this path and the file name.
11. Select **Save**. You can see the repo details in the new service.
    ![](./static/save_service_config.png) 
12. Click the YAML path to view your service YAML file in your Git repo.
    ![](./static/service_remote_git.png) 
```

---
title: Manage services using Git Experience 

> description: Git experience allows you to manage and store your services in Git

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Git Experience allows you to manage and store your services in Git
```

sidebar_position: 11
---

Harness lets you create a service in the following ways:

* Create an inline service and save its configuration in Harness.
* Create a remote service and save its configuration in Git.

The topic explains how you can store your services in Git.

## Before you begin

* Make sure you have a Git repo with at least one branch.​
* Make sure you have a [Harness Git connector](/docs/platform/connectors/code-repositories/connect-to-code-repo) with a Personal Access Token (PAT) for your Git account.​

## Create a remote service

> You can create a service from your account, organization or project. This topic explains the steps to create a service from the project scope.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create a service from your account, organization, or project. This topic explains the steps to create a service from the project scope.
```

To create a remote service, do the following:

1. In your Harness Account, go to your project.

> 2. To create a service from outside of a pipeline, you use **Services** in the navigation pane.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. To create a service from outside of a pipeline, under **Account-level resources**, select **Services**.
```

> To learn more about creating services refer [Create Services](docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/services/create-services.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   To learn more about creating services, go to [Create Services](docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/services/create-services.md).
```

3. Select **+ New Service**. The **Add Service** settings appear.
![](./static/Gitex_service.png) 
4. In **Name**, enter a name for the service.
5. Select **Remote**.
6. In **Git Connector**, select or create a Git connector to the repo for your project.​ For steps, go to [Code Repo Connectors](/docs/category/code-repo-connectors).
7. In **Repository**, select your repository. If your repository isn't listed, enter its name. Create the repository in Git before entering it in **Select Repository**. Harness does not create the repository for you.
8. In **Git Branch**, select your branch. If your branch isn't listed, enter its name. Create the branch in your repository before entering it in **Git Branch**. Harness does not create the branch for you.

> Select the branch where you want to save your Service . You generally want to save it to the default branch on the first save. You can then create different branches in the Harness repo if you want to create different versions of your service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. Select the branch where you want to save your Service. You generally want to save it to the default branch on the first save. You can then create different branches in the Harness repo if you want to create different versions of your service.
```

> ![](./static/branch_switching.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![](./static/branch_switching.png)
```

> 9. Harness Git experience auto-populates the **YAML Path**. You can change this path and the file name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10. Harness Git Experience auto-populates the **YAML Path**. You can change this path and the file name.
```

> 10. Select **Save**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
11. Select **Save**.
```

> ![](./static/save_service_config.png) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![](./static/save_service_config.png) 
```

> Click on the the yaml path provided (The one highlighted under rectangular box), it will take you github file where the service is stored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
12. Click on the YAML path provided (the one highlighted under the rectangular box), it will take you GitHub file where the service is stored.
```

> ![](./static/service_remote_git.png) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![](./static/service_remote_git.png) 
```

> ### Adding services in Pipeline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Add services in a pipeline
```

> Once the service is created you can use it in your CD pipeline, or you can create services within in your pipeline. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the service is created you can use it in your CD pipeline, or you can create services within your pipeline. 
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add services in a pipeline, do the following:
```

> 1. Go to stage settings and click on **Service**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to stage settings, and then select **Service**.
```

> ![](./static/stage_service_settings.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![](./static/stage_service_settings.png)
```

> 2. Select **Services** if service is already created, if not it can easily be created by clicking on **+ Add Services** and following the steps mentioned above for creating remote services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Select **Services** if the service is already created. If the service doesn't exist, create it by selecting **+ Add Services** and following the steps to [create a remote service](#create-a-remote-service).
```

3. You can select the branch for selecting the version of service you want to use in your pipeline.

> ![](./static/branches_adding_services.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ![](./static/branches_adding_services.png)
```

:::note

> By default it will pick up the branch of the pipeline, suppose you are creating service at branch named as `remote-services` it will pick up the service version created at branch `remote-services`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default it will pick up the branch of the pipeline, suppose you are creating a service at a branch named `remote-services`, it will pick up the service version created at branch `remote-services`.
```

:::

> 4. Click on **Apply Selected**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Click **Apply Selected**.
```

## Inline service to remote

> Suppose the service is stored as ``Inline`` that is it's configuration stored in Harness, it can be easily moved to ``Git`` afterwards. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Suppose the service's Harness configuration is stored as ``Inline``, it can be easily moved to ``Git``afterward. 
```

> 1. Click on **Services**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select **Services**.
```

> 2. Click on vertical ellipsis as shown below in the image. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Select **More Options** (&vellip;) as shown in the image below. 
```

> 3. Click on **Move to Git**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Select **Move to Git**.
```
